Add section for refreshing receipts (#251)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture: draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.md

A SCITT instance is referred to as a Transparency Service.
Implementations of Transparency Services may protect their Append-only Log using a combination of trusted hardware, replication and consensus protocols, and cryptographic evidence.
A Receipt is an offline, universally-verifiable proof that an entry is recorded in the Append-only Log.

> Requesting a refreshed receipt can result in the same receipt with a different signature or signature with a different signing algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requesting a refreshed receipt can result in a new receipt over the same signed statement, with an updated signature, signing algorithm, and new key material expiration.
```

Reviewer 2: lgtm

> Requesting a refreshed receipt can result in a new receipt over the same signed statement, with an updated signature, signing algorithm, and new key material expiration.

Reviewer: Suggestion, based on merged text consistency:
```suggestion
Verifiers can request refreshed receipts resulting in a new receipt over the previously signed statement, with an updated signature, signing algorithm, and new key material expiration.
```

While this wording is a bit more consistent, it does raise the question:
Is the new, refreshed receipt persisted in the append-only log? Is the premise that anyone can request a refreshed receipt?

- **Jan 1, 2025**: Registration of "foo" is done, and a receipt is issued
- **Jan 2, 2025**: a request for the receipt is made, and it's still valid, so it's not "refreshed", rather the existing receipt is returned.
- **Feb 1, 2025**: the key material of the original receipt expired, so the verifier requests a refreshed receipt with an updated signature expiration.
- **Feb 2, 2025**:, another verifier requests the receipt. Do they get the originally signed and expired signature receipt, or the refreshed receipt generated the day prior? 

Or: 

1. Is the behavior that any request of an existing receipt is considered a READ scenario, and doesn't necessarily require RBAC? If it's expired, it's automatically refreshed, but not durable? 
1. Can verifiers request existing expired receipts, which stay expired until someone with permissions can refresh the signature of the receipt.
1. If requesting a refreshed receipt is durable, this implies a set of permissions (RBAC) to write back.

Conceptually, I get the desired intent. In practice, this seems to require more discussion.

Reviewer 2: We abstained from defining Verifier, right?

Reviewer: Yeah, I was looking for a better way to make this sentence fit within the paragraph. They read as isolated bullets, rather than a paragraph.

Reviewer: resolving this thread to propose an alternative

> Requesting a refreshed receipt can result in a new receipt over the same signed statement, with an updated signature, signing algorithm, and new key material expiration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Requesting a receipt can result in the production of a new receipt for the same signed statement.
A Receipt's verification key, signing algorithm, validity period, header parameters or other claims MAY change each time a Receipt is produced.
```

A SCITT instance is referred to as a Transparency Service.
Implementations of Transparency Services may protect their Append-only Log using a combination of trusted hardware, replication and consensus protocols, and cryptographic evidence.
A Receipt is an offline, universally-verifiable proof that an entry is recorded in the Append-only Log.

> Receipts do not have an expiration time, but the corresponding key material could.

Reviewer 4: This addition contradicts [draft-ietf-cose-merkle-tree-proofs](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-cose-merkle-tree-proofs-05#name-validity-period), aka COSE Receipts, although that is an informative reference, it seems pretty important.

```suggestion
```

Author: The content of the Merkle tree proof is immutable and does not expire.  The ability to ask CA's and such later the same questions becomes problematic and why that information should be part of the information on the Ledger.  This is immutable and like your kindergarten signature it is still you.  This is what the above reference is about.  The operation of signing the proof with a new signature does not diminish that statement.

Reviewer 4: > The content of the Merkle tree proof is immutable and does not expire.

That is not what the referenced I-D says, so I will copy-paste the section I cited here for clarity.

> In some cases, receipts MAY include strict validity periods, for example, activation not too far in the future, or expiration, not too far in the past. See the iat, nbf, and exp claims in [[RFC8392](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8392)], for one way to accomplish this. The details of expressing validity periods are out of scope for this document.

The claims MAY include strict validity periods. That is not about the digital signature itself, but the claim properties signed. It not a MUST however.

If SCITT were to say that receipts MUST NOT have an expiration time (i.e. use those fields) and clarify how it takes the general capabilities of a COSE-wrapped CWT and strictly forbids the use of those, I would say that explanation is much clearer to implementers about what needs to be done and meet the requirement you want to add.

I can propose wording to that effect, does that make sense?

Reviewer 3: I support applying this change

> Receipts do not have an expiration time, but the corresponding key material could.
> Requesting a refreshed receipt can result in the same receipt with a different signature or signature with a different signing algorithm.

Reviewer: Since the above  (line 300) refers to expired key material, should this line reflect an updated key material expiration?

```suggestion
Receipts do not have an expiration time, but the corresponding key material could.
Requesting a refreshed receipt can result in a new receipt over the same signed statement, with an updated signature, signing algorithm and new key material expiration.
```

Reviewer 4: How does a Client request a refreshed Receipt? Can it perform this operation without re-registering the same Signed Statement as before?

Author: The details of how to request a receipt is and should be covered in SCRAPI.

To Steve's comment, I don't think this is what we want to say.  The content we are re-issuing is based on the entries in the Ledger and using the receipt to find that.  There is no presentation or look up of signed statement so this leads people to a wrong point of view.  Yes the signed statement is then indirectly covered by the re-issuance.  The important point that we lose with this proposal is the epoch we face with PQC.  We can generate new receipts with PQC algorithms without having to re-sign the original document.  Which goes to the signature is preserved and valid at the time we generated a receipt, the fact that there are stronger signing algorithms does not mean that old signatures are suspect.

Reviewer 4: > The details of how to request a receipt is and should be covered in SCRAPI.

I can agree to that, but the mechanics of this are part of the problem. I would support rewording this sentence if it said specifically what a client must do to refresh a receipt. Otherwise, I would think it is best to leave this out. Is the ability to refresh a receipt a mandatory, essential feature of every TS that must conform to this architecture? It is hard for me to know, because what must be done.

> The important point that we lose with this proposal is the epoch we face with PQC. We can generate new receipts with PQC algorithms without having to re-sign the original document. 

Re my previous point, that is why it is hard for me to understand the PQC implications and why it is essential all spec-conformant TS implementations need the ability to reissue receipts without the original document. This approach seems interesting but goes beyond the minimally viable architecture requirement _for everyone_, no?

Reviewer: > The important point that we lose with this proposal is the epoch we face with PQC. We can generate new receipts with PQC algorithms without having to re-sign the original document. Which goes to the signature is preserved and valid at the time we generated a receipt, the fact that there are stronger signing algorithms does not mean that old signatures are suspect.

@roywill, when you say "re-issue receipts", without re-signing the original document, I'm assuming this is a new receipt for the same registration of the signed statement (original document). Wouldn't that be a new notary signature from the TS, using new algorithms and a new expiration date on the notary signature? It would evaluate the signed statement against the same registration policy, not a new one. (I'm avoiding the counter-signature reference). 

 ```suggestion
Receipts do not have an expiration time, but the corresponding key material could.
Requesting a refreshed receipt can result in a new receipt over the previously signed statement, with an updated signature, signing algorithm, and new key material expiration.
```
